# I-Am-An-Academy-Participant
Difference Between 3G/4G &amp; 3GB/4GB
I currently work at Sprint, and over the course of any given day at my job, I am guaranteed to hear this question at least once: what is the difference between 3G/4G and 3GB/4GB? I can certainly see why anyone that does not work specifically with technology would have this question, as this can be a frustrating thing to try to figure out. However, for those of us that do work with technology in some capacity, this is a rather easy question to answer. Allow me to explain:

The ‘G’ in 3G/4G simply means ‘generation’. When we speak of ‘generation’, we are referring to the speed of internet being beamed to your device. The difference in 3G/4G quality can be fairly extreme, depending on what you plan on using the internet for at any given moment. 3G is okay to use for basics like checking either email or the weather. 4G, however, is the more common generation used in present times - and for good reason. 4G can be up to 3x faster than 3G, making it good for anything that is data-intensive like watching videos, streaming music, and frequent social media usage. Most metropolitan areas allow for 4G signals to be emitted from towers; however, the farther that one travels away from city/suburban areas, the signal from towers will weaken. Thus, those areas will only provide 3G signals (or 1x, which is the lowest form of data signal strength and signifies that most wireless services will be compromised to a large degree in said area).

The ‘GB’ in 3GB/4GB stands for ‘gigabyte’. A gigabyte, equal to 1024 MB (megabyte), is the amount of data that one is allotted for any given data plan. Plans can be as low as 100 MB and as high as 50GB - or even unlimited GBs with some carriers (except for Verizon).   

So, in summary, 3GB/4GB are amounts of data on your plan that will run off of a 3G/4G network. 
